# Hackathon Quiz

Simple react app built with the Open Trivia DB API. Pair coded.

## Deployed Link

*to add*

## Technologies used

- Javascript
- React.js
- Git
- Bulma
- Sass
- yarn
- HTML5
- Insomnia
- Axios
- react-router-dom
- OpenTriviaDB

## Process

We started this project by trawling through lists of free APIs online, looking for a good one without an access key that would inspire a project idea. Our first idea was to make a Studio Ghibli based wiki but setting out our MVP made it clear that we did not have even close to enough time to make it work. The idea we settled on was a quiz game built with the OpenTriviaDB API, which had a database of trivia questions sorted into categories, difficulty and answer type(multiple choice or boolean)

After wireframing and using Insomnia to make a bunch of different test requests to the API, we found that all we would need for our web app was a list of possible categories and a randomized list of ten questions from a selected category. We chose which categories we wanted people to choose from and displayed those on the CategoryIndex page. The category you select there influences the URL that the request uses to make the quiz questions. 

The exit condition for the quiz screen is when you reach the end of the questions, this is generated by adding 1 to a count on every click. All of the questions are retrieved when you start the quiz but we only display one at a time, with the buttons underneath created from the answers. This was the first time I understood why sometimes words have ampersands and random info in them. Looking into dangerouslySetInnerHTML made buggy text all over the web make way more sense to me. Our main point of styling was to use a different API to display a different NASA image on the home page and each category card. This didnt come out 100% how we imagined, it just makes the home page look a bit funny.

## Challenges and Extra Features

Early on we had some issues working with Git and sharing a repository, although by the end of the first day we were way past it. Another early issue we had was with how nested a lot of the information was in the API, getting to it was tricky. The answers we were using always came up with the correct answer first, we tried a bunch of different ways to shuffle them but didnt end up figuring it out in time.
Some extra features I would have liked to include are a leaderboard with a persistant score, more options for question number or difficulty, and way more styling on the actual quiz.

## Wins & Things Learned

Working pair coded in this project was really great, it added a lot to our ability to problem solve. I found the urgency of the deadline combined with pair coding a really good way to work. This was also my first glimpse at how useful Git and GitHub can be. Learning how to interact with an API showed me a lot that helped with building my own databases on later projects.